README.md, before:

# 🐾 Vet Software

A comprehensive veterinary clinic management system to streamline the entire workflow of a vet clinic.

## Project Overview

This system helps veterinary clinics manage appointments, patient records, treatments, and administrative tasks efficiently.

## Tech Stack

- **Backend**: Django 6.0 (Python)
- **Database**: SQLite (development) / PostgreSQL (production ready)
- **Frontend**: Tailwind CSS 3.x + Flowbite
- **Testing**: pytest, pytest-django, pytest-cov
- **Build Tools**: Node.js, npm

## Quick Start

For detailed installation and setup instructions, please see [CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md).

**Prerequisites**: Python 3.10+, Node.js 20.x LTS, Git

**Quick access after setup**:

- Main site: http://127.0.0.1:8000/
- Admin panel: http://127.0.0.1:8000/admin/

## Project Structure

```
vet-software/
├── src/                    # Django project source
│   ├── home/              # Main application
│   │   ├── templates/     # HTML templates
│   │   ├── views.py       # View functions
│   │   └── urls.py        # URL routing
│   ├── vet_software/      # Project settings
│   │   └── settings.py    # Django configuration
│   └── manage.py          # Django management script
├── static/                # Static assets
│   ├── src/
│   │   ├── input.css      # Tailwind source
│   │   └── output.css     # Compiled CSS (generated)
│   └── tailwind.config.js # Tailwind configuration
├── docs/                  # Documentation
├── venv/                  # Virtual environment
└── requirements.txt       # Python dependencies

```

## SQL SCHEMA

[DB Schema Link](https://dbdiagram.io/d/Copy-of-genie-logiciel-6964d8c5d6e030a024c4eeb1)

<img width="2240" height="1288" alt="ERD_SCHEMA_2026_01_12" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/89a977b2-0dec-452d-80f5-34ac1d7d7553" />


**SQL dumps :** can be found [here](./db).

## Authors

**Aurélie Pham** • **Grace Naing** • **Karel Vilém Svoboda**

**Affiliation**: HES-SO Valais / Wallis (2025-2026)

**Courses**: 201.2 Génie logiciel • 201.3 BD relationnelles

## License

See [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

Commit message:

Add email reminder functionality and update configuration
- Implement command to send reminder emails for today's appointments.
- Create a sample environment configuration file for email settings.
- Update README with instructions for sending reminder emails.
- Modify settings to load environment variables for email configuration.
- Clean up HTML templates and improve code formatting.

README.md, after:

# 🐾 Vet Software

A comprehensive veterinary clinic management system to streamline the entire workflow of a vet clinic.

## Project Overview

This system helps veterinary clinics manage appointments, patient records, treatments, and administrative tasks efficiently.

## Tech Stack

- **Backend**: Django 6.0 (Python)
- **Database**: SQLite (development) / PostgreSQL (production ready)
- **Frontend**: Tailwind CSS 3.x + Flowbite
- **Testing**: pytest, pytest-django, pytest-cov
- **Build Tools**: Node.js, npm

## Quick Start

For detailed installation and setup instructions, please see [CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md).

**Prerequisites**: Python 3.10+, Node.js 20.x LTS, Git

**Quick access after setup**:

- Main site: http://127.0.0.1:8000/
- Admin panel: http://127.0.0.1:8000/admin/

## Sending Reminder Emails

The system can automatically send reminder emails to staff for items that need follow-ups (e.g., 30 days after an appointment).

### Prerequisites

Configure your email settings in `.env` file:

```env
EMAIL_HOST=smtp.gmail.com
EMAIL_PORT=587
EMAIL_USE_TLS=True
EMAIL_HOST_USER=your-email@gmail.com
EMAIL_HOST_PASSWORD=your-app-password
DEFAULT_FROM_EMAIL=your-email@gmail.com
```

### Sending Reminders

Run the command to send reminder emails for today's reminders:

```bash
python manage.py send_reminder_emails
```

## Project Structure

```
vet-software/
├── src/                    # Django project source
│   ├── home/              # Main application
│   │   ├── templates/     # HTML templates
│   │   ├── views.py       # View functions
│   │   └── urls.py        # URL routing
│   ├── vet_software/      # Project settings
│   │   └── settings.py    # Django configuration
│   └── manage.py          # Django management script
├── static/                # Static assets
│   ├── src/
│   │   ├── input.css      # Tailwind source
│   │   └── output.css     # Compiled CSS (generated)
│   └── tailwind.config.js # Tailwind configuration
├── docs/                  # Documentation
├── venv/                  # Virtual environment
└── requirements.txt       # Python dependencies

```

## SQL SCHEMA

[DB Schema Link](https://dbdiagram.io/d/Copy-of-genie-logiciel-6964d8c5d6e030a024c4eeb1)

<img width="2240" height="1288" alt="ERD_SCHEMA_2026_01_12" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/89a977b2-0dec-452d-80f5-34ac1d7d7553" />

**SQL dumps :** can be found [here](./db).

## Authors

**Aurélie Pham** • **Grace Naing** • **Karel Vilém Svoboda**

**Affiliation**: HES-SO Valais / Wallis (2025-2026)

**Courses**: 201.2 Génie logiciel • 201.3 BD relationnelles

## License

See [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.
